##DESCRIPTION
##  Algebra problem: true or false for inequality 
##ENDDESCRIPTION

##KEYWORDS('algebra', 'inequality', 'fraction')

## DBsubject('Algebra')
## DBchapter('Fundamentals')
## DBsection('Real Numbers')
## Date('6/3/2002')
## Author('')
## Institution('')
## TitleText1('Precalculus')
## EditionText1('3')
## AuthorText1('Stewart, Redlin, Watson')
## Section1('1.1')
## Problem1('22')

########################################################################

DOCUMENT();      

loadMacros(
   "PGstandard.pl",     # Standard macros for PG language
   "MathObjects.pl",
   "PGML.pl",
   "parserOneOf.pl",
   #"source.pl",        # allows code to be displayed on certain sites.
   #"PGcourse.pl",      # Customization file for the course
);

# Print problem number and point value (weight) for the problem
TEXT(beginproblem());

# Show which answers are correct and which ones are incorrect
$showPartialCorrectAnswers = 1;

##############################################################
#
#  Setup
#
#
Context("Numeric");

$pi = Real("pi");
$ansA1 = "-29.8";
$ansA2 = "-29.7";
$ansB1 = "-30.3";
$ansB2 = "-30.2";
$ansC1 = "-45.3";
$ansC2 = "-45.0";
$ansDhr = "9";
$ansDmin = "59";
$ansDs1 = "58";
##############################################################
#
#  Text
#
#

BEGIN_PGML
 Somebody dropped a rare pottery from some unknown height above your floor in the multistoried building in which you live. Police wants to know when and from where the pottery was dropped. You happened to be looking out your [``1.50 \ m``] window when you saw the pottery fall, unable to catch it, much to your horror! You estimate you saw the pottery across a [``0.0500 \ s``] period. Assume [`g = -9.80 \ m/s^2`].
 
 
A\) What is the velocity of the pottery when it becomes visible at the
upper side of your window frame? (Be careful about signs)

     [________]{OneOf($ansA1, $ansA2)}[`m/s`]

B\) What is the velocity of the pottery when it ceases to be visible at
the lower side of your window frame? (Again be careful about signs)

    [_________]{OneOf($ansB1, $ansB2)}[`m/s`]
    
C\) By how much distance had the pottery fallen before you saw it? Report to 2 significant figures.

    [_________]{OneOf($ansC1, $ansC2)}[`m`]
    
D\) If you saw the falling pottery for the first time at [`10 \ hours \ 0 \ mins \ 1 \ secs`] at what time was the pottery dropped? Report your answer to two significant figures in this part.

    [_________]{strict_str_cmp($ansDhr)}[`hrs \ : \ `][_________]{strict_str_cmp($ansDmin)}[`mins \ : \ `][_________]{strict_num_cmp(58)}[`s`]
END_PGML

Context()->texStrings;



ENDDOCUMENT();        
