##DESCRIPTION
##  Algebra problem: true or false for inequality 
##ENDDESCRIPTION

##KEYWORDS('algebra', 'inequality', 'fraction')

## DBsubject('Algebra')
## DBchapter('Fundamentals')
## DBsection('Real Numbers')
## Date('6/3/2002')
## Author('')
## Institution('')
## TitleText1('Precalculus')
## EditionText1('3')
## AuthorText1('Stewart, Redlin, Watson')
## Section1('1.1')
## Problem1('22')

########################################################################

DOCUMENT();      

loadMacros(
   "PGstandard.pl",     # Standard macros for PG language
   "MathObjects.pl",
   "PGML.pl",
   "parserOneOf.pl",
   #"source.pl",        # allows code to be displayed on certain sites.
   #"PGcourse.pl",      # Customization file for the course
);

# Print problem number and point value (weight) for the problem
TEXT(beginproblem());

# Show which answers are correct and which ones are incorrect
$showPartialCorrectAnswers = 1;

##############################################################
#
#  Setup
#
#
Context("Numeric");
Context()->flags->set(
  tolerance => 0.05,
  tolType => "relative",
);

$pi = Real("pi");
$ansA = 1.40;
$ansB = "no";
$ansC = 0.84;
$ansD = 0.021;
$ansE = 0.021;
$ansF = 638;
$ansG = 636;
$ansH = 10.8;

##############################################################
#
#  Text
#
#

Context()->texStrings;
BEGIN_PGML
You wish to swing a ball in a vertical circle. The circular motion should be fast enough such that the ball can reach the top of the vertical circle without falling. The ball is attached to a masslesss string and you are holding the end of the string which ends up being the center of this vertical circle (see Fig. 1). Let the length of the string [`R = 0.200 \ m`]. The mass of this ball is [`m = 1.00 \ g`].

A\) We all know that the ball should have a larger weight at the bottom of the circle and a lighter weight at the top of the circle. Let the tension in the string be denoted by [`T`]. Find the minimum speed at which the string must go around in a circle such that the ball can sustain itself at the 12 O'clock point (point A in Fig. 1).

[________]{Compute($ansA)->cmp()}[`m/s`]

B\) What quantity does the minimum speed above depend on? Does it depend on the mass of the ball (yes or no)? Note: Enter your answer as yes or no in lower case.

[________]{strict_str_cmp($ansB)}[]

C\) Suppose the ball's speed is [`1.50 \ m/s`]. What would be the period of rotation [`T`] of the ball?

[________]{Compute($ansC)->cmp()}[`s`]

D\) What would be the weight of the ball (i.e., the tension [`T`] in the string) at point B?

[________]{Compute($ansD)->cmp()}[`N`]

Suppose you are on a ferris wheel with a radius [`R = 12.0 \ m`] which is rotating at a speed of [`v = 0.500 \ m/s`]. 

E\) What is the centripetal acceleration of the ferris wheel?

[________]{Compute($ansE)->cmp()}[`m/s^2`]

F\) If your mass is [`65.0 \ kg`], what would your weight be at the lowest point of the ferris wheel?

[________]{Compute($ansF)->cmp()}[`N`]

G\) What would your weight be at the highest point of the ferris wheel? 

[________]{Compute($ansG)->cmp()}[`N`]

H\) At what speed [`v`] of the ferris wheel would you have a tendency to go flying off your seat while at the top most point of the vertical circle?

[________]{Compute($ansH)->cmp()}[`m/s`]

END_PGML

BEGIN_TEXT
$BR
$BR
$BR
\{ image( "hw5-f1.png", width=>500, height=>500,  
tex_size=>700, extra_html_tags=>'alt="Figure 1 for problem 2, HW5."' ) \}
$BR
See the following Physlet application for additional assistance:
$BR
https://www.compadre.org/Physlets/mechanics/ex5_2.cfm

END_TEXT
ENDDOCUMENT();        
