##DESCRIPTION
##  Algebra problem: true or false for inequality 
##ENDDESCRIPTION

##KEYWORDS('algebra', 'inequality', 'fraction')

## DBsubject('Algebra')
## DBchapter('Fundamentals')
## DBsection('Real Numbers')
## Date('6/3/2002')
## Author('')
## Institution('')
## TitleText1('Precalculus')
## EditionText1('3')
## AuthorText1('Stewart, Redlin, Watson')
## Section1('1.1')
## Problem1('22')

########################################################################

DOCUMENT();      

loadMacros(
   "PGstandard.pl",     # Standard macros for PG language
   "MathObjects.pl",
   "PGML.pl",
   "parserOneOf.pl",
   #"source.pl",        # allows code to be displayed on certain sites.
   #"PGcourse.pl",      # Customization file for the course
);

# Print problem number and point value (weight) for the problem
TEXT(beginproblem());

# Show which answers are correct and which ones are incorrect
$showPartialCorrectAnswers = 1;

##############################################################
#
#  Setup
#
#
Context("Numeric");
Context()->flags->set(
  tolerance => 0.1,
  tolType => "relative",
);
$pi = Real("pi");
$ansA1 = $pi;
$ansA2 = $pi;
$ansB1 = $pi;
$ansB2 = $pi;
$ansC = 275.0;
$ansD = 141.0;
$ansE1 = 389.0;
$ansE2 = 17.0;
##############################################################
#
#  Text
#
#

Context()->normalStrings();
BEGIN_PGML
A missile is launched with initial velocity [`v_{1,0} = 2.00 \times 10^3 \ m/s`] at an angle of [`\theta = 45^{\circ}`]. A second missile is launched sometime later to intercept the first missile (Fig. 3). In order to neutralize the first missile, the second missile has a higher velocity of launch, [`v_{2,0} = 3.00\times 10^3 \ m/s`] and is launched at a low angle of [`\theta_0 = 15^{\circ}`]. Observe that an angle much lower than the one being used could be dangerous given the presence of a mountain range which the missile must
safely fly over. Assume that the two missiles neutralize one another at some
point characterized by [`X`] and [`Y`] at some time t measured from the launch of the first missile and at some time [`t - t'`] measured from the launch of the second missile. The second missile is clearly launched [`t'`] after the launch of the first. Observe that in A\) and A\) below, we will end up with 4 equations. Your work will involve figuring out how to extract 4 unknowns in C\) through E\) below using these 4 equations.

A\) Set up vertical and horizontal equations for missile 1 relating [`X`] and [`Y`] to [`v_{1,0}, \ \theta`] and [`t`].

B\)  Set up the vertical and horizontal equations for missile 2 relating [`X`] and [`Y`] to [`v_{2,0}, \theta '`] and [`t-t'`]. Now, equate equations for the horizontal and vertical motions of missile 1 and 2 as I have done in my lecture notes.

Note: Parts A\) and B\) are to guide you along the problem. They won't be graded.

C\) Calculate the time [`t`] after the launch of the first missile when the two missiles collide.

    [`t = `][__________]{Compute($ansC)->cmp()}[`s`]
    
D\) Find the time [`t'`] (this is the time after the launch of the first missile when the second missile is launched).

    [`t' = `][___________]{Compute($ansD)->cmp()}[`s`]
    
E\) Find [`X`] and [`Y`]

    [`(X, Y) = `]([_______]{Compute($ansE1)->cmp()}[`km`], [________]{Compute($ansE2)->cmp()}[`km`])
END_PGML

BEGIN_TEXT
$BR
$BR
$BR
\{ image( "hw3-f3.png", width=>400, height=>500,  
tex_size=>700, extra_html_tags=>'alt="Figures for problem 3, HW3."' ) \}


END_TEXT

ENDDOCUMENT();        
