##DESCRIPTION
##  Algebra problem: true or false for inequality 
##ENDDESCRIPTION

##KEYWORDS('algebra', 'inequality', 'fraction')

## DBsubject('Algebra')
## DBchapter('Fundamentals')
## DBsection('Real Numbers')
## Date('6/3/2002')
## Author('')
## Institution('')
## TitleText1('Precalculus')
## EditionText1('3')
## AuthorText1('Stewart, Redlin, Watson')
## Section1('1.1')
## Problem1('22')

########################################################################

DOCUMENT();      

loadMacros(
   "PGstandard.pl",     # Standard macros for PG language
   "MathObjects.pl",
   "PGML.pl",
   "parserOneOf.pl",
   #"source.pl",        # allows code to be displayed on certain sites.
   #"PGcourse.pl",      # Customization file for the course
);

# Print problem number and point value (weight) for the problem
TEXT(beginproblem());

# Show which answers are correct and which ones are incorrect
$showPartialCorrectAnswers = 1;

##############################################################
#
#  Setup
#
#
Context("Numeric");
Context()->flags->set(
  tolerance => 0.1,
  tolType => "relative",
);

$pi = Real("pi");
$ansA = Real(5.72E24);
$ansB = Real(5600);
$ansC = Real(1.97E30);


##############################################################
#
#  Text
#
#

Context()->texStrings;

BEGIN_PGML
By simultaneously measuring the shadows of a vertically embedded stick in downtown Buffalo say, and of an identical vertically embedded stick in downtown Syracuse at noon time, given that the shortest distance between the two downtowns is [`232 \ km`], it is possible to estimate the circumference and hence the radius of the Earth (to see how precisely the shadows are used, please see https://sciencing.com/radius-earth-5895686.html, this method by the way is due to Eratosthenes from around 260 BC). Turns out that radius of the Earth [`R_E = 6267 \ km`]. The value of [`G`] (Universal constant of gravity) was measured about [`300 \ yrs`] ago. The 1798 measurement by Cavendish was quite accurate and came out to [`6.74 \times 10^{-11} \ m^3/kg.s^2`]. The present day estimate is [`6.674 \times 10^{-11} \ m^3/kg.s^2`]. 

Note: These answers are quite large. So use the syntax to enter numbers in scientific notation to make things easier.

A\) Since you know [`g = 9.80 \ m/s^2`], use [`g`], [`G`] and [`R_E`] to estimate the mass of the  Earth.

[___________]{Compute($ansA)->cmp()}[`kg`]

B\) Assuming the Earth to be a homogeneous sphere, what is Earth's average density?

[___________]{Compute($ansB)->cmp()}[`kg/m^3`]

C\) Distance between Earth and Sun is not easy to measure. This is usually done indirectly by measuring distances to nearby objects such as Venus and Mars, etc. Since 1961 astronomers have been using radar echo to measure these distances. The Earth-Sun distance is known to be [`R_S = 14.9 \times 10^7 \ km`]. Use Kepler's law to estimate the mass of the Sun.

[___________]{Compute($ansC)->cmp()}[`kg`]

END_PGML

ENDDOCUMENT();        
